---
title: Angular Big Project Structure
author: Sat Naing
pubDatetime: 2025-06-04
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
  - Angular
  - Architecture
  - ESLint
slug: big-angular-app-structure
description: "My Current Thoughts on Structuring Large Angular Applications"
---

When I say "big", what I really mean is Angular applications that are contributed to by >1 developer and are using automated build and testing, probably CI/CD.

## *Example* Project Structure

Starting at the `src` directory, treat each part of your application as a *feature*. Keep the `app` feature *small*. It will produce your `main.MD5HAS.js` on **every** rebuild, and have to be sent to the users of your application.

The `features` directory is a peer with `app`, and has nested directories for each feature. If the feature exposes a route, put that in the root of the directory.

```
src
├── app
│   ├── app.component.ts
│   ├── app.config.ts
│   ├── app.routes.ts
│   ├── components
│   │   └── nav-bar.ts
│   ├── data.ts
│   ├── pages
│   │   └── home.ts
│   └── services
|       └── telemetry.ts
├── features
│   └── admin
│       ├── admin.ts
│       ├── components
│       │   ├── course-card.ts
│       │   └── track-card.ts
│       ├── pages
│       │   ├── add-course.ts
│       │   ├── add-offering.ts
│       │   ├── add-track.ts
│       │   └── todo.ts
│       ├── routes.ts
│       └── stores
│           ├── admin.ts
│           ├── courses.ts
│           ├── tracks.ts
│           └── with-courses.ts
├── shared
│   └── user-store.ts

```

Each *feature* (`app`, as well as any code in the `features` directory) should be as isolated as possible.

Some exceptions:

- The `app.routes.ts` *may* import the `routes.ts` file from any feature.
  - These should be *lazy loaded* with `loadChildRoutes` so that they split the build bundles.
- The `app.routes.ts` *may* import features that expose components.
  - Again, prefer *lazy loading* with `loadComponent`.
- If *any* feature (including `app`) uses a component, service or *anything* from another feature, it should be treated as suspect and probably disallowed.
  - "Promote" it to the `shared` directory.
  - For components, if there is a lot of *churn* on the component being imported, consider using a `@defer` so that it creates a new bundle.

## The Goal With Features

Features are usually worked on by a small subset of the team, often in parallel with other work in the application. Features typically have a high rate of change (code churn) initially (while we get feedback from the team, users, testers, etc.). A developer working in a feature should be able to:

- Push new changes to the CI/CD pipeline *as often as they like*. 
- These changes should almost *never* cause merge conflicts since the changes are localized.
- Note: I've even broken a single feature into multiple features to avoid merge conflicts. 
- It's *best* if a feature is only being actively developed by one developer at a time.

Some Rules:

- Features cannot *ever* use anything from any other feature. 
- Features *may* import from the `shared` directory.
- Features can *promote* things to the `shared` directory, but that comes with responsibility (see below).
- Of course features can import things from `node_modules`. 

## About the `shared` Directory

Sometimes I've done this as a package, but usually I find this not worth the effort. The shared directory is for things that are "up for grabs" across *any* feature in the application.

What that means, though, is that while a *major* change to something inside of a feature would have *no* impact on any other part of the application, *any* changes in the `shared` directory may have unintended side effects in unknown places in the application.

Items (for example, components) in the `shared` directory, by definition, do not have a *specific* use. They are shared and therefore *general* use. This increases the requirements for tests to detect regressions, and these tests are fairly "context free". You tend to have to do more *defensive coding* on shared assets. 

Likewise, if you are working in a feature and your are using something from the `shared` directory (or from `node_modules`!) make sure your tests prove your *specific* use of those imports.

> Note: UI Testing for `shared` items is challenging. No good testing frameworks (other than, arguably, Cypress) allow you to do "component testing". This is the #1 argument for putting these in a separate library that the Angular app can `npm install`. In that library you can use tools like Cypress component testing, or something like Playwright with StoryBook or developer created examples of their use that are tested against.

## Using Sheriff To Protect Boundaries with ESlint

[Sheriff](https://sheriff.softarc.io/) is a great tool for enforcing module boundaries with ES-Lint. Instructions for installing and initializing are at the link.

Here's a pretty general-purpose config for the above proscribed structure:

```ts
import { SheriffConfig, sameTag } from '@softarc/sheriff-core';

export const config: SheriffConfig = {
  autoTagging: true,
  enableBarrelLess: true,
  modules: {
    'src/features/<domain>': ['domain:<domain>', 'type:feature'],
    'src/app': ['domain:app', 'type:app'],
    'src/shared': ['type:shared'],
  }, // apply tags to your modules
  depRules: {
    'type:feature': [sameTag, 'type:shared'],
    'domain:app': [sameTag, 'type:shared', 'type:feature'],
    'type:app': [sameTag, 'type:feature', 'type:shared'],
    'type:shared': [sameTag],
    root: ['type:app'],
  },
};
```

## Summary

There are a lot of "rules" here, but I think the payoff is worth it in terms of less overall frustration, and increased velocity. Consider using a tool like es-lint to help enforce these rules. 